# Abstract

(Still needs work)

## ****How Decentralized is DeFi? Classifying Liquidity Pool based Decentralized Exchange Protocols****

With the central bank raising interest rates in hopes to lower inflation, consumers are facing the imminent threat of lower wages, less spending, and higher unemployment, along with the possible risk of driving the entire economy into recession. Central banks and other players of centralization in our global financial system expose critical flaws including lack of trust, entry barriers, financial censorship, and global inequality. DeFi, short for Decentralized Finance, is a movement aiming to create a blockchain-based ecosystem to solve these problems harnessing blockchain as infrastructure for a financial system “by enabling decentralized trust intermediation”. However, there are increasing concerns for the amount of centralization that exists within each DeFi protocol. The project features an analysis of the most popular Decentralized Exchanges, examining factors that contribute to centralization including custody, price feeds, initiation of margin calls, provision of margin call liquidity, interest rate determination, and protocol development. Based on factors analyzed, it has been concluded that no Decentralized Exchange protocol is completely decentralized, meaning not every component in these DeFi protocols is decentralized. The conclusions drawn from this investigation will help create a project for the future that captures the full granularity of decentralization within every single protocol in the DeFi ecosystem. This will provide users with complete transparency of the amount of centralization that exists in each protocol.